Here's the search tree with all of its values filled in.
As you can see, the breadth-first search algorithm would
have reached node A on the 23rd step,
node B on the 27th,
and node C on the 22nd.
As you may have guessed,
breadth-first search is an uninformed search algorithm.
This means that it searches blindly without
any knowledge of the space it's traversing or where the goal may be.
For this reason, it isn't the most efficient in its operation.
Let's look at a more complicated example.
Here is a discretized map of an environment.
The robot starts off at this location in the middle of
the open space and would like to find a path to its goal location marked in green.
Let's assume that the space is for connected,
meaning that the robot can move up,
right, down, or left, but not diagonally.
Thus, from a start location,
the robot has four options for where to explore next.
We can't explore all four at once.
So, we're going to add each of these options to something called the frontier.
The frontier is the collection of all nodes that we have seen but not yet explored.
When the time comes,
each of these nodes will be removed from the frontier unexplored.
Before we add these nodes to the frontier,
let's set a standard.
In our examples, we will break ties in the following manner.
When we have new notes that add to the frontier,
we will choose to add the top node first,
then the one on the right, then the left,
and if no other options are available,
then the node directly below.
Now, we can add the four nodes to our frontier.
For breadth-first search, the data structure underlying the frontier is a queue.
In a queue, the first element to enter will be the first to exit. Here we go.
Now, we remove the first element from the frontier and explore that node.
We'll mark previously explored nodes in dark blue.
From this node, we can see
three more unexplored nodes if we are to look up, right, and left.
We should add these to our frontier.
Now, one might want to keep exploring upwards,
but that isn't what we agreed upon.
We always remove the first element from the frontier,
explore it, and then add any new nodes to the frontier.
So, the next node to be explored is D7.
D7 is removed from the frontier,
and E7 and D8 are added.
Next, we explore B7,
then C8, then C5,
and we continue with this process.
You'll notice that the explored area radiates outward from the starting node.
Breadth-first search searches broadly,
visiting the closest nodes first.
For this reason, it takes the algorithm a long time to travel
a certain distance because it is radiating in all directions.
Eventually, the algorithm will find the goal node.
Jackpot. Now, if we were to number the nodes in the order that they were explored,
the goal would be node number 25.
I'll let you decide what you think of this.